Gravity, Baby
Written: 01-10-2024

I remember the first time I…

The first time, it happened. The first time she… reached out... reached out like she would always reach out for me, floating in our bunk on the Cala Mitijana. 

One of the side benefits of trying to raise an infant in zero G is you can just put them "down" anywhere. Hold them out and let go gently enough, and they just sit there. Sure, they’re light enough eventually the air currents will waft them around and into a bulkhead. But if you just need a minute or two to fix a bottle or stuff a diaper in the recycler, just let em go and do what you gotta do. Some babies don’t mind it, I remember my little brother giggling every time our mother would change him. He would wriggle back and forth until he was doing slow, cooing, summersaults. 

She hates it. She just wails and holds out both her hands to me. Reaching out as hard as she can for me, and screaming and crying. So I try not to just let her hang in the air and make sure to put her near a bed or a hand hold.  She doesn’t mind floating if she can hold on to something. She’ll even push off the wall to cross the bunk to me. Or off of me towards Bajia when she sees him coming down the airlock corridor with sweets in his pockets. But if you let her go, even just for a second, she’ll burst into tears. I hope she’ll grow out of it. School down a well is so expensive. We could make it work but I’d have to get my tubes tied so we haven’t decided on what we want to do just…

I’m sorry.

I was changing her one day and we had floated near the middle of the room while I was fixing her new nap. I hook a foothold cause I knew I had to steady myself to put her “down” for a second to put the old diaper into the biowaste recycler. So I do, and immediately with the tears. I sing to her to try and get her to calm for the moments she’s floating. I turn my back on her and float the two-ish meters over to the I/O. I’m trying to be quick but…

I cannot get the fucking cap. 

Off the goddamn port. 

Im struggling, and singing, and pulling, and struggling more…

And just as the cap mechanism releases, crushing one of my fingers, a blast of shit-air hits me in the face and I retch. Not a lot, but a little blob of puke is floating in front of me while I grab a tissue and stuff the puke and the diaper in the port and shut the cap. And I just fucking lose it. 

She’s crying, I’m crying. It feels like our wailing keeps getting louder and louder, echoing around the small cabin. And just when I can’t take it, its so loud, thats when I feel her little hand tugging on my hair. And feel her silly little face smush into my cheek. She bounces off and I see her big green eyes, still wet with tears stuck all to her face, floating upside down in front of me. And then she smiles, and we laugh together and I pull her into the biggest hug and I tell her I’m sorry and that I love her.

It wasn’t until later, long after she left, that I realized what had happened all those years ago. She was floating amidships. Nothing to grab onto or push off of. But somehow she reached out for me, and found me. It’s what makes me still have hope, that some day she’ll reach out, and come back to me again.